---
layout: post
title:  "Breastfeeding Advocate"
permalink:  "Breastfeeding Advocate"
date:   2015-12-07 11:58:35 -0200
categories: Breastfeeding
---
<p>As society turns more and more to breastfeeding as the new normal (or old normal depending on who you talk to), the term “breastfeeding advocate” gets used quite a bit. I consider myself to be a breastfeeding advocate, but I’ve come to realize that means different things to different people. It’s important that you understand my stance on breastfeeding and how I advocate, so you know what role I can play in your breastfeeding experience. <p>Being a breastfeeding advocate means I refer to formula as the lesser product instead of breastmilk as the better product. When you compare breastmilk to formula, it implies that formula is the baseline, and breastmilk is a better option. That continues the climate of formula being the normal way to feed the baby while breastfeeding is an alternative. We need to change that dialogue and compare formula to breastmilk. Breastmilk doesn’t lower your child’s risk of cancer, formula raises is. Breastmilk isn’t cheaper than formula, formula is more expensive. I admit, sometimes this wording sounds harsh and aggressive towards formula and that isn’t my goal. I simply believe it’s a more accurate way of discussing a mother’s options for feeding her baby. It establishes a platform of breastfeeding, with formula as support beams instead of the other way around. <p>As a breastfeeding advocate I educate everyone about breastfeeding. Why, how, when, for how long, where, etc. And not just general tidbits here.  Nearly people know “breastmilk is better for the baby,” but they can’t tell me specifics reasons. If I’ve been educating a woman on the benefits of breastfeeding, I want her to walk away knowing details like formula increases her child’s risk of ear infections, SIDS, and type 2 diabetes. This type of information is much more motivating and valuable than a simple, “it’s healthier” mentality. If someone asks me how long I’m going to breastfeed I don’t start with my personal goals, I start with “The WHO recommends all children be breastfed until at least age 2,” so continue getting the information spread to anyone that will listen.<p>Breastfeeding advocacy also means I’m going to congratulate and praise any woman I see breastfeeding in public. If breastfeeding is going to stop being a taboo topic, the population needs to see it happen. Millions of children are being nursed every second of every day, (that’s not a researched fact but it seems accurate, right?) yet most people that I have breastfed in front of tell me it’s the first time they’ve ever seen it done. No wonder breastfeeding seems weird to people! The thought of seeing a baby suckle at a woman’s breast can illicit some bizarre mental images until you see it in person. Then, suddenly it’s a beautiful image of nature and maternal instinct. I’ve only been given praise one time for breastfeeding in public and I literally started crying it made me so happy! I can only imagine what it feels like to woman with less confidence in her breastfeeding ways. I make an effort to applaud all women for breastfeeding out in the open for the world to see and admire.<p>If you aren’t comfortable breastfeeding in public, breastfeeding advocacy means I’m going to bend over backwards to give you a safe and private space to feed your baby. Sometimes women feel exposed while nursing, sometimes they feel indecent, and sometimes the baby is just too wild to be around outside stimulation for a nursing session. All of that is ok, and you should feel just as supported by me as the woman whipping her boob out at the dinner table. I’ll wait in line for a dressing room, I’ll hold up a blanket in the corner, I’ll tell the pervert staring at you to…well you can imagine. I just want you to feed your baby how you want to, where you want to, when you want to. <p>If you invite me to your baby shower, I’m going to buy you breastfeeding accessories. I could care less about a cute onesie or rattle. I’m buying you a support pillow, a bra, some milk bags-something that will help your chances of success. I’ll always give you a gift receipt so you don’t have to awkwardly ask where I bought it so you can return it because you’re planning on formula feeding.  Just remember, one nursing pillow costs the same as 2 cans of formula, so even if you only nurse for 2 weeks-it paid for itself!<p>As an advocate, I could talk about breastfeeding all day long. And I want to. If you need breastfeeding help, PLEASE ASK ME. I’m a bottomless pit of encouragement, support, facts, tips and tricks, you name it. I must have texted my lactation consultant (a dear friend’s mother) once a day for 3 weeks when I was first getting the hang of it. I’m not sure I would have made it through without her. Support is everything on those challenging days and a breastfeeding advocate should be that for all breastfeeding moms. Nothing upsets me more than meeting a woman that just needed on more person cheering her on to help her achieve her breastfeeding goals. I could have been that person! And more importantly, I wanted to be that person. <p>Breastfeeding advocacy DOESN’T mean that I think less of a woman for formula feeding her baby. Formula is a priceless substance that has saved countless baby’s lives, and I’m so grateful for its existence. It plays an important role in our world and I value that, truly I do. All mothers want what is best for their infants, and if a woman can confidently say that formula is the best for her family, so be it. I think terrible things about the guerilla marketing tactics used by formula companies, but that’s not the issue here. The fact is that formula is an essential option for millions of mothers, and hallelujah for it and the mothers that deal with it. Scrubbing all those bottles, carrying around those giant cans, dealing with the smellier poop-they all deserve a medal really. 