---
layout: post
title:  "Thorough Introduction"
permalink:  "Introduction"
date:   2015-11-18 11:58:35 -0200
categories: Self Reflection
---
<p>I was born and raised in Indiana. With obesity on both sides of my family and a nasty divorce between my parents, my sister and I were quick to become overweight children. I was an extremely picky eater accepting a small list of foods that consisted of macaroni and cheese, grilled cheese, spaghetti, and ramen noodles. I was a real brat when it came to meals; I’m not sure how my parents ever put up with me.<p>In the fifth grade I realized I was overweight. I remember coming home from school and running around my block one time to get some exercise in. I would run in whatever I wore to school. I’m sure everyone on my block thought I was playing a long distance game of hide and seek. Still though, nutrition wasn’t something I knew or understood. <p>In middle school I elected to do a project on nutrition. This was when I first learned the value of a balanced plate. I started making efforts to try new foods, choke down the ones I hated, and think about the volumes I was consuming. I was still heavier than most girls my age, but felt pretty happy with myself. I bought a bikini for the first time, and I was no longer only wearing spandex because nothing else fit. <p>In high school I was a working athlete with beautiful friends. Though I never dealt with an eating disorder, there was certainly some disordered eating (by myself or my friends). Skipping breakfast, lunch or both, feeling guilty about eating dessert, trying to eat less in front of boys, etc. Despite being active, hardworking, and growing girls we were all very concerned with our size and appearance because, well, high school. Do I really need to explain more? I was still the biggest girl in my group, but when you hang out with all size 3s being a size 9 seems fat, which certainly didn’t help my self-esteem. I realized that my passion for cooking and eating was greater than the other girls. Everyone loves pizza night, but I thought about what toppings we would get all day, while everyone else stressed about how few slices they would eat. I started to embrace my bigger build and passion for foods. Why was I skipping breakfast when that’s my favorite meal of the day? I decided to go to culinary school and make my whole life’s theme food.<p>Turns out, culinary school wasn’t in the cards for me. The only in-state option was in a very far away and small town, and I just wanted a more traditional college experience. I decided to attend Indiana University (Go Hoosiers!) and chose to major in dietetics. This ended up being the perfect major for me. My life’s theme is still food, but with the bonus twist of science and health. I was a great student; I earned a 3.8, was on dean’s list every semester, and was in the honor’s society.  Meanwhile I met my future husband, Rob, sophomore year, and lived with him senior year. <p>Upon graduating from IU I applied for 5 internships and matched with Saint Louis University as a pediatric intern. It was a one-year internship that was also paired with a year of graduate night school. I hated the idea of a thesis, private catholic college is HELLA expensive, and Rob proposed, so I chose to come back to Bloomington after completing my internship (instead of completing a Master’s in nutrition as well). <p>As a pediatric intern I spent nearly 50% of my internship in the Saint Louis Children’s Hospital. And yes, that word “in” is appropriate. I felt like I lived there. This experience reaffirmed my passion for infant and childhood nutrition, but totally changed my tune about clinical dietetics. I hate hospitals, even when they are covered in cartoons and primary colors. I hate the smell, the logistics, the charting, and most importantly, the suffering. I realized my favorite rotations were in the community setting. Reaching out to families that truly need help and education, and ensuring children are able to grow up with access to healthy meals was what I enjoyed doing.<p>I came home and feverishly planned my wedding while studying for the Registered Dietitian exam. I passed my test on my first try (yahoo), got married in September, and started an aggressive job hunt. It took me 3 months to find a single position for an RD within 45 miles of my house. And wouldn’t you know, it was a position working with pregnant and post partum women, as well as children! I couldn’t believe my luck. Then I was the only applicant and they had no choice but to hire me! It was only part-time, but it was something. And I loved doing it. I was able to attend a breastfeeding training course where I earned my Certified Lactation Specialist title, the first step in becoming an IBCLC. The part-time position advanced to a full-time traveling position 8 months later, and my life was moving along as perfectly as I’d ever planned. <p>My husband and I bought a house together…and we were surprised with a pregnancy 4 weeks later. I was in shock. Rob was elated. After the initial surprise, my shock turned to elation too and I had a wonderful pregnancy. Rosalind was born in December 2014, healthy and happy. My job let me bring her with me to work for the first 6 months of her life, as a support to my breastfeeding lifestyle. I started back locally, part-time to ease in to this new routine, and had a scare on a snowy road while she was in the backseat. All at once I realized that having her in the car while I drove all over the state wasn’t just going to make my workday very stressful, it was putting her in danger. After a very emotional phone call with Rob, we decided that day I would return to only part-time work. We wrote a new and much less fun budget, and Roz and I skipped around the house in celebration. <p>So here I am now. A Mrs., an RD, a CLS, and a SAHM. Those titles tell you so much about me! I love food, I love nutrition, and I love educating people about both. I love breastfeeding even more, and have found it to be my true passion. Again, I love it in my own life, but I also love helping others to achieve their breastfeeding goals too! Lastly, I’m at home (most of the week). That means I’m trying thrifty things, I’m cooking all of the time, and I’m constantly trying to come up with ways to keep my baby girl safe and happy. Throw in some random abbreviation for being a crazy pet lady and my professional title could have replaced this entire blog post. I can’t decide if that’s cool or depressing…