---
layout: post
title:  "Reasons to Breastfeed"
permalink:  "Reasons to Breasfeed"
date:   2016-01-20 11:58:35 -0200
categories: Breastfeeding
---
<p> 

<h2>Reasons to breastfeed</h2> 

<p><h1>THAT HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH YOUR BABY'S HEALTH</h1><p>Breastfeeding rates and advocacy are on the rise, yay! Unfortunately, because this leaves some people feeling judged or attacked, breastfeeding is also under some scrutiny.  As a breastfeeding advocate, I simply want everyone to feel educated, encouraged, and supported. I don’t want anyone to feel like less of a woman or mother for not achieving  (or even setting) breastfeeding goals. That being said, I do take issue with some of the counter-points I’ve seen to the breastfeeding craze.<p>People have taken to discounting the benefits of breastfeeding. I’ve seen more and more articles discussing that much of the research behind the facts that we shout from the rooftops isn’t as strong as once thought, and perhaps breastfeeding isn’t THAT much better for your baby than formula. As a mother, any opportunity to make my child smarter, closer to me, and healthier is an opportunity worth taking. However, those are my personal thoughts, and not something that all women feel. So, instead of going on and on about those health benefits (that all major health organizations including the WHO and CDC recognize), I’ve come up with a list of reasons you should breastfeed that have NOTHING to do with an infant’s health.<blockquote><p>
<h3>1.	The Environment.</h3><p>I spent hours researching the impact of formula on the environment. It was something I hadn’t really heard much about, and the numbers out there truly appalled me.  I make some pretty strong efforts to be environmentally conscious. I wash and reuse Ziploc bags, I bring reusable bags to every store, I limit my electricity use, etc. but even I was feeling pretty smug about my carbon footprint after looking deeper in to this topic. Anyways, about halfway through my summary, I realized I wasn’t contributing anything new to the conversation, and it would be better to simply direct you to the best resource I found: http://ibfan.org/docs/FormulaForDisaster.pdf To be clear, the impact of formula on the environment is so bad an international organization named their research paper Formula For Disaster. <p><h3>	For those of you with limited time or attention spans-here are the highlights:</h3><p>The key ingredient in formula is cow’s milk. Livestock (i.e. cows) are the largest contributor of methane and are currently considered one of the biggest contributing factors to global warming. Dairy farms also use a tremendous amount of water, land, and energy to run day to day. Milk then travels hundreds of miles (burning fuel), to the nearest factory where it is processed (burning through a variety of resources) to make it fit for infant consumption. Then it’s packaged in cardboard, plastic, and aluminum cans, which can’t be recycled. It’s estimated that 550 million of these bad boys enter landfills EACH YEAR. After being bought it’s mixed with water (water that comes from plastic jugs because distilled water is safest for infants to drink). Then, those very bottles formula is served in have to be washed, boiled, using up even more water, and are then eventually thrown away.  From start to finish, infant formula is a threat to the environment. I recognize this route is the same route countless food items take in the American diet, so it shouldn’t be the only food being attacked. In general, we have a very unsustainable food system that is wreaking havoc on the planet. But, if there is any way any one of us can reduce our use of this system it is a step in the right direction. <p><h3>
2.	Mom’s health
</h3><p>You may not be impressed by some of the more moderate (though still present) benefits of breastfeeding for an infant, but what about for mothers? Breastfeeding reduces a woman’s risk of cancer. A woman can decrease her risk of breast cancer by 4% for every 12months of breastfeeding. That’s not all; ovarian cancer is also reduced by breastfeeding. One specific study found that women that breastfeed for at least 31 months have a 91% less chance of developing ovarian cancer compared to women that breastfed for less than 10 months. Breastfeeding also promotes weight loss!  By burning up to 500 calories each day, breastfeeding helps mothers return to a healthy post partum weight. http://www.mdanderson.org/patient-and-cancer-information/cancer-information/cancer-topics/prevention-and-screening/health/breastfeeding.html<p><h3>
3.	Emergency preparedness
</h3><p>I know this may feel extreme but natural disasters are on the rise (thanks to global warming)! Relying on formula to feed your infant means you are dependent on several systems to work perfectly: milk has to be available, factories have to be running, roads have to be safe, stores have to be open and stocked, and water has to be clean. That’s so many moving pieces. We all like to think nothing will happen to us, but it can. And if it does, breastfeeding may be the only thing that keeps your children alive. Here are two examples of how breastfeeding saved the lives, not only of children, but also of other adults in a dire situation.http://abcnews.go.com/Health/story?id=2701717&page=1http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2001-02-07/news/0102070109_1_milk-puerto-rico-currents<p><h3>
4.	Money
</h3><p>You all knew this was coming, and I realize it’s pretty low hanging fruit. FORMULA IS EXPENSIVE.  Most estimates out there calculate a yearly cost anywhere from $1,200-$2,000 depending on the brand and eating habits of each infant. There is something else to be consider financially, but bringing it up kind of feels like cheating because I swore this wouldn’t be about infant health. But I’m going to bring it up anyways. Formulas fed infants are more likely to get sick, and develop earaches. And that means that mothers of formula fed infants are more likely to miss work to stay home and care for their sick children. <p><h3>
5.	 Sleep
</h3><p>In my experience, fear of sleep deprivation is a common concern for everyone involved with a baby. Friends and family are constantly asking if the baby sleeps through the night yet, while parents are constantly setting up game plans to survive each 24 hour cycle (there are no days and nights in those first few weeks). It may surprise you to know that breastfeeding mothers actually sleep more than formula feeding mothers!  Studies vary on how much more, but it tends to fall in the 20-45 minute range each night. In this particular study, breastfeeding mothers also expressed feeling better rested than their counter formula feeding mothers. http://www.kathleenkendall-tackett.com/CLKendall-tackett_ppd_fatigue_bf.pdf  <p><h3>
6.	Contamination</h3><p>Formula is a product of human hands, and as such, mistakes happen. Recalls are rare, but can you imagine the fear as a new mom? There you are, happily feeding you precious bundle of joy when all of the sudden you hear that his only food source is contaminated. Again, this isn’t common, but it DOES happen. And it’s gross. Proof:http://www.cleveland.com/business/index.ssf/2010/09/similac_recall_check_here_to_s.html http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/03/13/gerber-recall_n_1341353.html<p><h3>
7.	Damn the Man!</h3><p>Formula companies are BIG BUSINESS (to the tune of $3 billion). Though first created to help save lives, it quickly became an alternative to breastfeeding (instead of a last resort). Marketed to the public, endorsed by doctors, and handed out for free in hospitals as a “just as healthy if not better than” option, formula became the norm in the first half of the 20th century. Medical professionals agree that the advertising of formula has changed the infant feeding climate, and led to poorer breastfeeding rates, and thus poorer health of our children.  It may be a bit petty of me, but I just HATE that someone out there is making millions of dollars by convincing women to doubt their own capabilities as mothers. So I say fuck ‘em. PLEASE LOOK AT THIS LINK<a href=http://www.slate.com/articles/double_x/doublex/2015/06/a_century_of_formula_advertising_it_s_always_gone_straight_for_the_new_mother.html></a>, so understand my point here! It’s fascinating. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2684040/