---
layout: post
title:  "What My Baby Eats"
permalink:  "What My Baby Eats"
date:   2016-01-18 11:58:35 -0200
categories: Nutrition
---
<h1>What My Baby Eats</h1><p>I’m a firm believer in waiting until infants are 6 months old to start solids. Antiquated practices recommended starting as early as 4 months, and I still get clients that are told to put cereal in their 2 month olds bottles! Science has proven that a baby’s digestive system is not ready for complex foods before 6 months, and offering foods too early puts the child at risk for food allergies later in life https://www.healthychildren.org/English/ages-stages/baby/feeding-nutrition/Pages/Cereal-in-a-Bottle-Solid-Food-Shortcuts-to-Avoid.aspx<p>So, up until June, Rosalind had only ever consumed boobie milk or water. At 5 months I remember saying to several people, “I just don’t know if we will make it to 6 months. She is so hungry, and she reaches and stares at the foods Rob and I eat.” Everyone was supportive of me starting early. Each time I considered caving I researched once more and found more information on the importance of waiting. The WHO, the CDC, the AAP, all of them say to wait. So instead I started a sippy cup of water at meal times. While it’s important to make sure water is never offered in place of a nutritional feeding, this step got her used to her sippy cup early on, and kept her content at meal times when Rob and I ate. I would estimate she never drank more than ½ an ounce in a day. From here on out, you can trust the only thing she has ever drank other then milk, is water.  We were nursing 10 times every day, and I was comfortable with this routine. </p><h1>6 months</h1><p>It just so happened that Roz was 6 months and 5 days on Father’s Day! That felt like a fun occasion to celebrate with a new milestone. I think I cried for 20 minutes imagining her perfect breastfed tummy being contaminated with food. Obviously this was ridiculous but new moms aren’t exactly known for being sane… anyways, I bit the bullet and was happier for it. She didn’t eat much, but she was fascinated by the experience and so excited to be at the big kid table together with Mom and Dad. Her first food was acorn squash. I had made a small batch of baby foods back in January when squash was still cheap in preparation for this day. She seemed to understand the spoon, and quickly got the hang of opening her mouth when she was ready for another bite. Again, following AAP guidelines, we offered 1 new food every 3-5 days so we could identify an allergy if she broke out in rash, or diarrhea, etc. We focused on vegetables for the entire first month of foods. In Rosalind’s first month of foods she tried acorn squash, butternut squash, sweet potato, zucchini, carrot, and cauliflower. Some days she ate a teaspoon, some days she ate a tablespoon. We stuck with nursing all day, but would try a solid at dinnertime.  If she was still hungry after a tablespoon of food we nursed again. We were still nursing about 8 times each day.<p>Some of you may be wondering why her first food wasn’t rice cereal. I made this decision after reading about baby-led weaning (BLW). The BLW process involves introducing children to table foods first, and skipping any type of puree. BLW users believe learning to chew and then swallow is a healthier pattern than learning the other way around. I get it, and I support it, but that scared the crap out of me and I quickly decided that wouldn’t work for us. However, much of the literature on BLW discusses skipping cereals not only because they aren’t chewed, but also because they are too bland. BLW suggests that when a baby’s first food is basically plain cardboard, bold flavors like vegetables become even scarier. This made sense to me, so we rode that wave. <h1>7 months</h1><p>By 7 months Roz was routinely finishing a tablespoon of food at dinner. We started on fruits next and cruised through pears, peaches, plums, banana, and apple without a hitch. Grapes (don’t worry they were chopped in a million ways to prevent choking) gave her diarrhea. That actually ended up being awesome though because when she had her first experience with constipation I knew exactly how to clear it up! I decided it was time to increase her food intake and began offering a solid at breakfast and dinner. I also started continuing to feed her solids until she refused. Sometimes she would eat 2-3 tablespoons of food at one sitting, so I knew she preferred this to the never ended breastfeeding sessions we were sitting through day in and day out.  We still nursed at least 6 times daily. <h1>8 months</h1><p>We advanced to 3 meals each day when Roz turned 8 months old. She was eating nearly every fruit and vegetable out there by then, and trying to eat my own lunch without giving her any was no longer an option. She continued to try new foods like kale, spaghetti squash, white potato, and berries. I started leaving foods less mashed, and even gave her small chunks to pick up and feed herself. She took to this quickly, and soon she preferred to feed herself half her meal. She would get tired of the struggle and request some spoon-feeding assistance eventually, but her skills improved every day. It’s amazing how content she was with plain produce. I kept thinking I should add some herbs to her vegetables, but she ate them so happily I didn’t see a reason to. It was such reinforcement that infants are a product of the world around them. She can’t prefer really buttery potatoes or cheese on her broccoli if she has never had it! We still nursed at least 5 times each day.<h1>9 months</h1><p>9 months meant it was time for proteins! This is scary subject for a dietitian, because I’ve been taught about allergens. Traditionally, parents used to be encouraged to offer only the yolk of eggs, and avoid all nuts and peanuts to reduce the risk of allergies. In my research, the medical world is split. There is research that supports starting those foods early to get the body used to them, and research that says it’s best to wait. Neither Rob nor I have food allergies in our immediate family, so I went bold. We started offering eggs, nuts and peanut butter along with occasional meats all in this time frame. <p>My daughter has literally never eaten a plain egg. Each morning we get up and I dice up some vegetables to include in her little baby scramble. Tomatoes, bell pepper, spinach, potato-anything I can do to start her day balanced and nutrient dense! Beans became my go-to snack. I could serve them cut in half and they were a good size for her pincer grasp,  but also small enough to not be a choking hazard. She ate beans before meals if she was getting antsy, and as a snack if we were out and she didn’t want to nurse.  <p>I also started grains in her 9th month. Her eating skills were advanced enough I felt she could handle them, and I was struggling to keep meals new and exciting with only fruits, vegetables, and egg in the mix! I made her oatmeal from fresh oats about once a week, it usually fed her three times. I usually mix in peanut butter and applesauce or bananas and it’s a perfect meal. We also gave her plain noodles to feed herself, and brown rice from a spoon. We tried baked goods like tortilla and bread but she wasn’t too interested at this age. <p>Coincidentally, I also got my period back for the first time. As nursing became less of a focus, my hormones decided it was safe for me to start menstruating again. This was a huge bummer, obviously, because periods are the worst. Also, it meant her dependency on me was lowering, and as a mother that’s tough to know. Don’t worry though; we were still nursing at least 4 times every day! <h1>10 months</h1><p>Once Roz turned 10 months old I just threw it all to the birds. This girl would eat a plain vegetable she found in the dirt, was able to feed herself almost any food I put on her tray, and started eating insanely large portions. We progressed to simply giving her what we are eating and haven’t looked back. This transition has been great for us, because it’s an extra motivator for me to make balanced meals. I mean, I’m a dietitian so that means 90% of our meals were already healthy, but I can’t deny the occasional dinner of only macaroni and cheese. Now there is a fruit or vegetable at EVERY SINGLE MEAL, even if it’s a more unbalanced (high calorie, low nutrient density...macaroni and cheese basically) meal for the adults. Feeding Rosalind entirely from our meals has also been a time saver and stress reducer. No more baby foods, no more separate containers, no more feeling like I’m cooking a 6-course meal every night. We all eat together and talk about our days like a bona-fide family. Which makes sense, because we are one.  Still nursing 4 times every day. <p>As you may have guessed from the macaroni and cheese reference, we also introduced dairy. I still try to take it easy on this, as she only needs mom’s milk, but feeding her from our own meals meant Rob and I were missing dairy too. She definitely likes cheese, and it’s been nice to be able to turn to a sprinkle of shredded cheese as a snack if I don’t have any beans ready. <h1>11 months</h1><p>We’ve continued to progress the type of food she can handle. Before if we had a combination item, like pizza, I would break it down in to crust, vegetable topping, and cheese for her to eat. Now we give her small bites of the whole concoction. She’s impressed me with her abilities to handle these advanced foods.  By now she is familiar with bold foods too. Curry, stir fry, fajitas, you name it! She has her father’s taste buds so far, which means she will eat anything you put in front of her with a smile on her face. <h1>12 months</h1><p>I was in a deep internal struggle with how we would celebrate Rosalind’s first birthday. With birthday parties come birthday cake…remember how I actually cried before I fed my baby plain acorn squash? You can imagine the turmoil I felt behind introducing her to sugar! It seems like NOT a big deal. You offer her a plain slice of angel food cake, she probably won’t even like it, and your baby still loves vegetables. On the other hand though, what’s the point? Until now I’ve made a special effort to ensure that everything she eats serves a nutritional purpose. Tragically-cake doesn’t fit that standard.  I considered a sweet bread like banana nut? At least there’s a fruit and some omega 3 fats in there! I went back and forth each day and finally landed on no cake for baby Roz. I got some flack for this, but I stand by my choice. She got to blow out a candle, and was having so much fun being cheered for she didn’t even notice when I pulled the cupcake back out of grasp. The day will come when she can have 5 cupcakes if that’s what she chooses, but it wasn’t on her first birthday. She will never care and I slept easier knowing I stuck to my own comfort level.  <h1>Now</h1> <p>Rosalind is now finding she has preferences when it comes to food. She turns down entrees because she doesn’t like them, and seems to eat larger portions when it’s something she does like. When I make a meal and she is disappointed I turn to butternut squash cubes I have pre-diced in my freezer, applesauce (no sugar added of course), and cheese. She loves all of these foods, and I know they will fill her up while giving her most food groups and minimal junk.  She is still nursing 4 times each day, but I foresee 1 of those sessions dropping off in the coming weeks. We still only drink water. She was given a bite of cookie at my family’s Christmas Eve gathering much to my dismay, but we have recovered and have not reintroduced sugar. I still don’t see the point. When you see a child pound down clementines like she does, you feel pretty confident she isn’t missing out on anything.</p> <h2>Note!<h2><p>The most important thing when feeding an infant is safety. A baby should never be left alone with food unsupervised, and you should always follow your baby’s cues for what he or she can handle. Do not push advanced textures on an infant that isn’t interested. They are letting you know they aren’t ready, and that’s ok! As long as your baby is learning about meal times, learning about healthy food items, and is growing, you’re doing a great job of feeding your baby. Enjoy the journey, embrace the messes, and do your best to ignore the fact that nearly everything you’ve eaten in the last 4 months has been lukewarm. They won’t let you feed them forever, and you’ll miss it when it’s gone. 